README.md, before:

# OpenWRT Git Backup

Automated backup service for OpenWRT that commits configuration changes to a GitHub repository.

## Prerequisites

```bash
opkg update
opkg install git wget
```

## Installation

1. Download the backup script and service file:

```bash
mkdir -p /usr/local/bin/
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mietzen/OpenWRT-git-backup/main/git_backup -O /usr/local/bin/git_backup
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mietzen/OpenWRT-git-backup/main/S99git_backup -O /etc/rc.d/S99git_backup
chmod +x /usr/local/bin/git_backup
chmod +x /etc/rc.d/S99git_backup
```

2. Start the service (this will generate an SSH key on first run):

```bash
/etc/rc.d/S99git_backup start
```

3. Check the log for the generated SSH public key:

```bash
cat /var/log/git_backup.log
```

4. Add the public key as a deploy key to your GitHub repository:
   - Go to your repository → Settings → Deploy keys
   - Add the key with **write access** enabled

5. Restart the service:

```bash
/etc/rc.d/S99git_backup restart
```

6. Enable the service to start on boot:

```bash
/etc/rc.d/S99git_backup enable
```

## Configuration

Edit `/usr/local/bin/git_backup` to customize:
- `REPO_URL`: Your GitHub repository URL
- `INTERVAL`: Backup interval in seconds (default: 300)

## Monitoring

View logs:
```bash
tail -f /var/log/git_backup.log
```

Check service status:
```bash
/etc/rc.d/git_backup status
```

Commit message:

Add automatic git history limiting to save storage space
This commit adds functionality to automatically limit the git history
to the last 5 commits on the OpenWRT device, which is crucial for
embedded systems with limited storage.

Changes:
- Added limit_git_history() function that runs after each successful backup
- Uses git rebase to keep only the last 5 commits
- Automatically prunes old commits and runs garbage collection to free space
- Updated README with new feature documentation

The history limiting happens automatically after each backup push,
ensuring the git repository on the device never grows beyond 5 commits.

README.md, after:

# OpenWRT Git Backup

Automated backup service for OpenWRT that commits configuration changes to a GitHub repository.

## Prerequisites

```bash
opkg update
opkg install git wget
```

## Installation

1. Download the backup script and service file:

```bash
mkdir -p /usr/local/bin/
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mietzen/OpenWRT-git-backup/main/git_backup -O /usr/local/bin/git_backup
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mietzen/OpenWRT-git-backup/main/S99git_backup -O /etc/rc.d/S99git_backup
chmod +x /usr/local/bin/git_backup
chmod +x /etc/rc.d/S99git_backup
```

2. Start the service (this will generate an SSH key on first run):

```bash
/etc/rc.d/S99git_backup start
```

3. Check the log for the generated SSH public key:

```bash
cat /var/log/git_backup.log
```

4. Add the public key as a deploy key to your GitHub repository:
   - Go to your repository → Settings → Deploy keys
   - Add the key with **write access** enabled

5. Restart the service:

```bash
/etc/rc.d/S99git_backup restart
```

6. Enable the service to start on boot:

```bash
/etc/rc.d/S99git_backup enable
```

## Configuration

Edit `/usr/local/bin/git_backup` to customize:
- `REPO_URL`: Your GitHub repository URL
- `INTERVAL`: Backup interval in seconds (default: 300)
- `MAX_COMMITS`: Maximum number of commits to keep in history (default: 5)

## Features

- **Automatic History Limiting**: The script automatically limits the git history to the last 5 commits to save storage space on the device
- **Space Optimization**: After each backup, old commits beyond the limit are pruned and garbage collected to free up disk space
- **Continuous Backup**: Monitors configuration changes and commits them at regular intervals

## Monitoring

View logs:
```bash
tail -f /var/log/git_backup.log
```

Check service status:
```bash
/etc/rc.d/git_backup status
```
